Blog: Add guides to setup Cobbler in libvirt (#178)
cobbler/cobbler.github.io: _posts/2023/2023-07-08-cobbler-inside-libvirt-2.md

---
layout: post
title: Cobbler inside libvirt (2)
author: Enno
summary: Cobbler inside libvirt with a network bridge
---

> This blog article assumes you have read the previous part of this small series:
> [Cobbler inside libvirt (1)](./2023-07-07-cobbler-inside-libvirt-1.md)

This blog article will try to showcase how to setup a Cobbler VM that provides network booting to your network. This of 
course excludes the host that the VM we are setting up is running on.

To simplify this guide please ensure that your DHCP addresses are taken care of by an external source. This may be your
home router, another VM or you may also of course use static IPs if you feel like it. IPv6 support in Cobbler is mature
but for this guide, we will ignore it.

### Setup the libvirt bridge

> Before we can get started with setting up the Cobbler VM we need to ensure that our guest VM has access to the network

Reviewer: Punctuation
```suggestion
Before we can get started with setting up the Cobbler VM, we need to ensure that our guest VM has access to the network
```

- **Network Briding**: please head over to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_bridge)

### Setup Cobbler VM & install the guest OS

Download the openSUSE Tumbleweed ISO and move it to your desired libvirt storage pool (below I show the location of the 
default storage pool):

```shell
wget https://download.opensuse.org/tumbleweed/iso/openSUSE-Tumbleweed-NET-x86_64-Current.iso
mv openSUSE-Tumbleweed-NET-x86_64-Current.iso /var/lib/libvirt/images
```

Now we can start the setup of the guest. An example of a guide can be found
[in the openSUSE Documentation](https://doc.opensuse.org/documentation/leap/virtualization/html/book-virtualization/cha-kvm-inst.html#sec-libvirt-inst-vmm). 

During the setup two things need to be thought of:

1. Give the VM a little more storage for the ISOs, 50GB is recommended. If you forget this you may not be able to 
   download the ISO for the guest later on. Cobbler copies a lot from the ISO and as such be prepared that you need 
   double the storage that the ISO takes up.
2. Instead of the network `default` assign the network bridge so Cobbler receives and IP from your external DHCP server.

### Install Cobbler on the Guest

> To make access to the host easier you could copy SSH keys to your guest from your host with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make access to the host easier, you could copy SSH keys to your guest from your host with the following command:
```

```shell
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa <user>@<guest ip>
```

Passwordless login should now be possible with the following command:

```shell
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa <user>@<guest ip>
```

> To install Cobbler on openSUSE Tumbleweed use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Cobbler on openSUSE Tumbleweed, use the following command:
```

```shell
zypper in cobbler
```

You want to confirm the installation with `y` and then press enter.

### Configure Cobbler

> Since in the early boot stage normally your files are transferred via the TFTP protocol you must enable it with the

Reviewer: Wonky wording here in my view. Maybe consider this:
```suggestion
Since your files are usually transferred via the TFTP protocol during the early boot stage, you must enable it with the
```

following command:

```shell
systemctl enable --now tftp.service
```

Now open the ports in the firewall:

```shell
firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=http
firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=https
firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=tftp
```

Edit Cobbler settings (`/etc/cobbler/settings.yaml`) to match the IP range of the network:

```yml
server: 10.17.3.2
next_server_v4: 10.17.3.2
```

> You may safely ignore the rest of the settings. They are for now not of interest.

Reviewer: Wording in the last sentence again. There are multiple possible solutions here like:
"They are, for now (at least), not of interest (to us)."
Or
"They are not of interest (to us) for now."
However, let's go with something more natural sounding.
```suggestion
You may safely ignore the rest of the settings. They are not relevant to us for now.
```
